Welcome back for another 5 minute movie recap.
Today, I'm going to give you an
overview of the 2021 American
military science fiction action
film called 'The Tomorrow War'.
The film is directed by Chris
McKay and starring Chris Pratt.
It follows a group of current
day troops and citizens who
are transported into the future to
combat an extraterrestrial army.
Warning: there will be spoilers
ahead, so please proceed with caution.
Dan Forester, a biology
teacher and former Green Beret,
is unable to secure a position at a
prominent research facility in December 2022.
During the World Cup broadcast, warriors from the
year 2051 appear to warn that mankind is on the
verge of extinction due to a conflict with alien
invaders known as 'Whitespikes.' The Whitespikes
will arrive in November 2048 and destroy the vast
bulk of mankind within three years. As a result,
the world's military are transported into the
future through a wormhole technology known as
the 'Jumplink,' but only around 20% survive their
seven-day deployment, forcing a worldwide draught.
Dan receives notification that he has been
selected, and when he tells his wife, she
advises him to flee and persuades him to contact
his estranged father, a mechanical engineer, for
assistance in removing the draught band connected
to his arm. Dan's father abandoned him and his
mother when he returned from Vietnam because he
believed it was too unsafe to stay with them, but
Dan refuses his assistance and labels him a coward
before leaving. Dan reports to basic training with
the other draftees, where they are briefed about
the Whitespikes by future warriors. Dan and fellow
draftee Charlie determine that, in order to avoid
a contradiction, those conscripted have already
perished before the war begins, but those who have
arrived from the future have not yet been born.
The draftees are sent ahead in time
to a battlefield on Miami Beach,
but few survive after being dropped high over
the city by mistake. Colonel Forester, Romeo
Commander, directs the draftees to save adjacent
lab employees before the area is sterilised.
They realise that the lab staff have already
died, but they are able to salvage their research.
When Dan informs leadership about
the situation, he is informed that
no assistance would be dispatched to rescue
the stranded men. Except for Charlie, Dan,
and Dorian, a battle-hardened soldier on his
third mission to the future, nearly everyone dies.
The survivors awaken at a Dominican Republic
military base. Dan reports to Colonel Forester,
who happens to be his grown daughter Muri. She
asks him to accompany her on a mission to catch
a female Whitespike, which are more uncommon than
males. They capture and imprison the female only
to have hundreds of men descend on their location.
As the helicopter carrying the female takes off,
Dan and Muri flee to a beach and call for help.
Muri discloses to Dan that after losing his work,
he abandons his family and dies in a vehicle
accident in 2030. Dan, Muri, and the female
Whitespike are brought to a guarded oil rig
near Port Nelson, which houses the Jumplink.
Muri develops a poison capable of killing
Whitespikes. To liberate the female, the
Whitespikes attack and overrun the facility, and
Muri sacrifices herself to send Dan back in time.
Despite the fact that he
returns to 2023 with the poison,
the Jumplink is destroyed. The
destruction of the Jumplink is
interpreted by the rest of the globe as a
sign that the future battle has been lost.
While Dan and his wife, Emmy, are brainstorming,
she deduces that the Whitespikes did not come in
2048, but much earlier. Dan talks with Charlie
and Martin, a high school student interested
in volcanoes, and they hypothesise that the
Whitespikes have been on Earth since at least
the 'Millennium Eruption' in 946, and that global
warming has forced them to thaw up and emerge from
beneath the ice caps. Dan organises a trip to
Russia with Charlie, Dorian, a few surviving
future soldiers, and his estranged father James to
take things into their own hands when the United
States Defense Secretary rejects to utilise
military resources to verify the hypothesis.
The team discovers a wrecked extraterrestrial
ship in Komsomolets Island's Academy of Sciences
Glacier. They consider informing the rest of the
world about the situation, but ultimately opt to
eliminate the threat themselves. Once inside, they
learn that the Whitespikes are not aliens, but
rather bio-engineered creatures that may have been
employed as a planet-clearing weapon or livestock
by another alien civilization. The crew injects
the poison into five hibernating Whitespikes,
which kills the injected ones but awakens the rest
of the colony, killing the majority of the squad.
Dorian, who is dying of cancer and wants to
die on his own terms, remains behind to blow
up the ship with C-4, killing all but one of
the Whitespikes. Dan and his father track down
and murder the lone female fugitive, leaving
them and Charlie as the team's only survivors.
Dan brings James home to
meet his wife and children,
content that the conflict has been
avoided and mankind has been preserved,
resolved not to repeat the same mistakes that
Muri had warned him about from her future.
If you like this movie, click the link in
the description below to watch it today.
I hope you have enjoyed this video. Hit the
like button and subscribe for more videos.
Have a great day ahead.